Shortly after the battle

Silence fell over the sacred hall once again, as everyone left back to head down the long stairs. 

Silence…

Then the sound of footsteps could be heard.

Slowly, a pair of boots materialized out of nowhere, followed by the rest of the cloaked figure as it’s invisibility spell wore off. The figure slowly removed the hood, revealing the pale white face of an elf underneath, with long purple hair and a set of scarlet eyes. 
Farae looked out on the scene, the floor stained with dark patches of drying blood and bits of flesh as the knights had furiously attacked his dark king repeatedly. 

“She really is frightening when angered...” he said to himself as he went over to the raised platform to approach the golden glow in it’s center. He felt a sharp pain in his hand as his blessing of the gods merged with the golden power, however after witnessing the same happening to the other knights one by one, he had prepared himself to suffer through it. 
“Now then...” he whispered.

He walked over to the prismatic sphere still present on the edge of the platform and opened his spellbook. He quickly found the necessary spells and started the arduous process of dismantling the sphere, layer by layer. When he was done, he took a step closer to the edge of the platform, looking down into the depths of the abyss. 

“You’ve really done it this time. I have to wonder whether it is even worth it to keep supporting you at this point... Unfortunately, I cannot hold on to the light force myself... After I get you out of this, I’ll have you make good on your promise to me.” he said to the empty space.

He detached a small bag from his belt, opened it and took out a huge diamond. In the old world before this war had begun, this diamond would probably have fetched a large sum of gold in the markets of the imperial city. It was certainly an impressive gemstone. 
Farae opened his spellbook and found the page he was looking for. The page describing one of the simplest, but mightiest spells a wizard or sorcerer would ever learn. A spell that could alter the very fabric of reality itself. 
Of course, he knew the power and limitations of this spell well. He had only used it once before in his life, as the high cost of the high quality diamonds required for the sacrifice was more than he had ever been able to put together himself. 
However the last time he had used this spell, he had used it to accomplish a lesser result than what he would have to do now, and he knew that this would probably exceed the limitations of the spell. Whether it would even work correctly was doubtful…

He collected his thoughts, stepped back on the platform and spoke his wish to the empty air of the sacred hall. The diamond he held dissolved and turned into hundreds of light beams that went off in all directions. Then nothing…
The spell had surely worked. The diamond was spent and he had used much of his daily available magical power to cast it, however nothing had happened. Had it simply been too much, even for a spell this powerful to recover the remains of the dark king, lost in the void? 
No, he had to believe… this spell had limitations to be sure, but it could also on occasion bypass those very limitations. He waited.

Then, suddenly in front of him, something happened. A figure made of stone materialized in front of him. The large statue of Amenmesh looked truly absurd as he had been frozen as his mutilated body was falling through the air. It looked like a ragdoll in free fall, that had suddenly frozen in time and turned to stone. 

Farae finally breathed out, relieved that it had worked. He had no more diamonds to cast a spell this powerful, and besides he already knew that he could never return here once he left. At least not through the Hall of Heroes. 
No matter, that was of no importance now. 
He went down on one knee, looked through his spellbook and found the spell for turning the stone back into it’s normal condition. 
As he worked, slowly but surely the statue returned back into a body which instantly started regenerating the flesh it had lost as the knights had been hacking at it.

He waited as the body regenerated and the dark-skinned figure of Amenmesh sat back up, his long red hair hanging, now unbound, on his bare back. 
“My king...” Farae said, still on one knee in front of Amenmesh. 

“Finally.” Amenmesh spoke. “These pathetic knights have stood in my way for the last time. I swear, I will destroy them for this.”

Amenmesh rose to his feet, he did not have neither his armor nor his weapons now, but he did not need them for what he had to do. The scimitars and armor he had in this realm were not their real counterparts after all, and he would get into no more fights here. 
“Now to aquire the power to crush these despicable knights once and for all. I will crush them and lay waste to the sham they call an empire. With this power, I could even destroy this very world itself if I wanted to.” 
Farae also rose to his feet. 
“Your Majesty, make sure to finish any lingering objectives you may have in this hall now. The knights had our access to the Hall of Heroes revoked. If we leave now, we cannot return here, at least not that way.”
“Once I have this power, I can do anything. Go anywhere. Even the nine gods must bend to my will. Still, I have no intention of ever visiting this wretched hall again.” the dark king replied. 
Amenmesh turned towards the light and started moving slowly towards it. Farae then spoke out once more:
“Your Majesty, remember what you had promised me. If you want my continued service, I want my just reward.”
“You dare make demands of me?” came the reply from the angered king. “Well, no matter. For your continued service, you shall have that which you desire once we get out from this place. Then I will erase any who stands in my way.”

Amenmesh approached the golden light force in the center of the platform. He reached out with this hand and grit his teeth as a terrible pain washed over him. 
Anyone could be a vessel to this force, for a time. But a normal soul could not hold it for more than a split second before fracturing and destroying itself. However, Amenmesh’ soul was not normal. It was merged with the soul of a god. This might just be enough to hold onto this power and create a stable synergy within his own soul, making it his own. 
As his body burned, the dark king let out a terrible laughter.
“I’ll have to thank you for opening the way for me. In return, I will crush you beneath my heel!” he yelled out. 
When the light finally died down, the dark king was standing there alone. The golden light in the center of the platform was gone, but a slight golden glow surrounded him, and on his right palm was a golden circle, like a golden sun. 

“Now, let us go.” He told his servant. “We still have to bind this power to the amulet’s vessel before we  face the knights. I will be absolutely certain they can never destroy me before they come knocking.”

“Yes, your Majesty.” his servant replied. 

They turned to leave this sacred hall, now silent and dark without it’s power. It seemed as if the thousands of paintings floating in the air were also dead and lifeless now that the core of this place had been taken away.

The two figures continued back to the staircase, then disappeared into the starry sky. 